I am here in Europoort, one of the busiest ports in the world, near Rotterdam.
There are many amazing infrastructure projects in the area here. There are the Delta Works
the kilometers and kilometers of moveable and lockable storm surge barrier that ensures that all of it
land here is not completely flooded when there is a spring tide.
But there is a lesser known one, and it is quite amazing. Because this channel is a problem here
has. Because this channel may look great for British standards, but that is not the case at all.
If you control a large high-sided, flat-sided container ship and you have to
between the piles of that bridge there, that is a very difficult task
during the best situations. There is also a very difficult curve here, where you have the harbor
comes in. That is all very difficult. And it gets made worse by the fact that
this is in the Netherlands. It is very flat here and it is very windy. So what do you do?
Well, do you see these things behind me? Yes...
They stopped the wind!
This is the amazing Rozenburg Wind Wall, in the Netherlands. He is 25 meters high at his peak,
he is huge. And it is 1.6 kilometers long. And it stops the wind on this
whole piece of channel
Not entirely, but about 75% of it. But enough to make the difference between
against the bridge, or go straight under.
This is an amazing project. Not only because of its almost incredible scale.
I do not think I can show through camera what it is like to be under such a thing
but ... this is what you can do if you have millions of goods containers, billions
Euros, by a port. You can call two architects, Strujis and de Wit and
say: "We have to stop the wind."
And we are people: we stop the wind.
This wind wall is a symbol for what people can do if they want something. And like a big part of it
the Delta Works - and everything around here - this is a victory of mankind on nature. And
it is beautiful.